# Guiding and resulting literature

## [Learning analytics 1-page overview for districts](https://github.com/lastingerlx/datahub/blob/0184603538924b9165e09623248e0d4364ce0f23/Guiding%20and%20resulting%20literature/Learning%20Analytics%201-page.pdf)

As we were first establishing our researcher-practitioner partnership, we wanted to establish a shared understanding of the concept of using learner analytics to inform instructional decisions.  We composed and shared the following document with our district partners and followed it with a live conversation to allow for further questions and discussions.   

## [Annotated bibliography of literature in math, learning analytics, and equity](https://github.com/lastingerlx/datahub/blob/c915bc1d9d122e034325b1518f17fb064f4690db/Guiding%20and%20resulting%20literature/Annotated%20Bib%20Analytics%20Math%202023.pdf)

Our work is founded on an in depth literature review in alignment of our value of evidence-based practices.   The purpose of this document is serve as a synthesis that addresses what has been learned around analytics for equitable math education and to identify guidance from existing literature that can practically be applied to design and development of data tools for math education. Keywords used in literature search: Math Education, Equity, Data OR Analytics, Data Science for Learning, Dashboards OR Reports 

## [Article: A review of learning analytics opportunities and challenges relevant for PK-12 education and mathematics teaching and learning](https://www.cell.com/heliyon/fulltext/S2405-8440(24)01798-5?_returnURL=https%3A%2F%2Flinkinghub.elsevier.com%2Fretrieve%2Fpii%2FS2405844024017985%3Fshowall%3Dtrue)

Use of learning analytics to improve educational outcomes is a growing area of research. While learning analytics research has been more prevalent in higher education contexts, this study presents findings from a qualitative metasynthesis of 48 research publications related to opportunities and challenges relevant to learning analytics design, implementation, and research at the PK-12 level. Our findings indicate that, while many see the educational benefits of learning analytics (e.g., more equitable instruction, individualized learning, enhanced assessment for learning); others remain unconvinced by a lack of evidence of improved outcomes and concerned about persistent challenges and potentially harmful impacts (e.g., infringement on users’ privacy, misuse or misinterpretation of data by educators). We conclude by considering implications for mathematics education stemming from our analysis of learning analytics and posing questions to shape future research and key developments in mathematics education as learning analytics become more prevalent.

## [Understanding the Relationships between Student Use of a Virtual Learning Environment for Algebra and Achievement on a High Stakes Test: analysis by University of Florida hackathon students](https://github.com/lastingerlx/datahub/blob/)

Data related to student use of a virtual learning environment (VLE) is stored in a de-identfied form in our Data Lagoon, making it available for research. At the University of Florida, students in a data analytics course analyzed data to develop findings shared in this paper. The study used log data from an Algebra VLE used by middle and high school students, and standardized test scores on a high-stakes Algebra 1 test obtained from a large school district. The study used random forests, neural networks, and clustering methods to understand the relationships between time investment, study regularity, and help seeking behaviors in the VLE and Algebra achievement. The results show that student actions related to practice problems were the most important predictors of students passing the high-stakes Algebra 1 assessment mandated by the state. Activities related to viewing videos and participating in a discussion forum were also related to Algebra 1 scores. Time
investment was related to achievement, as students with higher frequency of actions performed better in the standardized test. Self-help actions, such as reviewing solution videos and loading the discussion board were important predictors of achievement. However, the importance of regularity of use was not supported by the results, as a surge of use in the fourth quarter was predictive of Algebra 1 scores. 
